We were just taking a look at option number two.
And we eventually said that the issue with this approach is that we are allowing our query service to
have a very deep understanding of what this common moderated event is.
So to solve this, we're going to have the comment moderated be instead processed by the comments service.
Let me show you how this is going to work out.
Okay.
So in this diagram on the left hand side, we've got our comment service and the query service.
The Common Service is the service that is ultimately in charge of exactly what a comment is.
It knows all the very precise business rules, all the business logic, everything around what a comment
is, how to update it and how to deal with it in some way.
And so it makes a lot of sense to have our common service be the one that is responsible for some very
precise, very well calibrated way of updating a comment.
Whenever the comment service updates a comment by handling one of these very specialized events, we're
going to have it emit one single very generic event called simply comment updated.
Whereas all the events on the left hand side meant that we wanted to update a comment in some very specific
way.
The common updated event says, Hey, there's a new comment right here or a new version of this comment,
don't worry about what the update was.
Don't worry about trying to interpret it.
Don't worry about trying to run some specialized business logic around it.
Just take these updated attributes and store them if you need them.
So we're going to follow this pattern throughout all the services we put together.
The service that is in charge of a basic resource will be in charge of these very specialized updates.
And any time those specialized updates occur, that service will emit a very generic event update.
So let's take a look at what this is going to look like for the services we are talking about right
now.
So we're going to once again have a user submitted comment as soon as they do.
So, we're going to have our comment service versus that event.
And notably, you'll notice that it now knows the status of that comment as well.
The comment service will then continue to emit a comment created event that will go to the event.
Plus it will go off to our moderation service and to the query service as well.
So we're going to still solve that issue we ran into earlier where the query service didn't really know
that a common root was created.
And so that was where we ran into issues with the user submitting a comment and then refreshing the
page.
We're then going to make sure that the moderation service still processes that comment and moderates
it in some way.
So that's going to go off to our event plus.
And now it's only going to go over to the comments service.
The Common Service will be the only thing that knows how to process this very specialized update to
what a comet is.
So in this case, we'll change the status around pending to approved.
Then because the comet service just made a change to a comet, a very specialized, very domain specific
change.
It will then emit a common updated event.
So this is a very generic event.
It just says, Hey, some attributes changed.
Don't worry about what changed.
Don't worry about processing this in any way.
Just use these attributes if you care about it at all.
That will go up to the event bus and the event bus will send it off to the query service.
And now the query service is going to say, Oh, a comment was updated.
I don't care how or why it was updated, I'm just going to take.
All the different properties out of that event, and I'm going to use those as the basis for my new
comment or for updating this comment.
So we're not even going to necessarily just change that status flag.
We're just going to say take all those attributes and use them to update our existing comment.
That's it.
Now I know that this might seem a little bit challenging to understand this idea of having kind of a
domain specific event in a very generic event.
But you're going to see many examples of this on the later project we work on as well.
So don't worry, you'll get a lot of experience with this over time.
So that's what we're going to do inside of our application.
We are going to use option number three.
We are going to end up introducing two events.
One is going to be very specialized in nature.
That is going to be the comment moderated event.
It's going to be processed by Common Service.
And then as soon as Common Service updates that comment, it's going to emit that generic event to say,
Hey, this comment was just updated.
If you care about it, great, use it in some way.
Now the upside to this approach is that the query service only needs to know about common updated.
Even if we start to add in a billion different ways of exactly how we can precisely update a comment.
Query service doesn't need to know that.
It just needs to know.
Oh, this comment was updated.
I'm just going to take these attributes and use them.
Okay.
So now we understand what we're going to do inside of our application.
We'll take a quick pause right here and start to implement option number three in just a moment.